# A most frightening incident

Mirth and happiness was happening..Amma was dressed in a fine Sari, and her friends were around with singing and talk. She became young again.. Got up from the Electric chair, and so solicitious of her guests, with an intent of going to the Kitchen. Other's concerned at her move, urged her to go back to the Chair. The next moment she turned and fell to the floor.
Everybody's heart sank, and collective blood flow stopped. "Naan Poyuda Poraen..Naan Poyuda Poraen.." Amma shouted ("I am going to go..I am going to go.." - meaning that death has arrived!).  She has also fallen at the Koyil Alwar, in front of God.  The brains of those around numbed by the shock, moved into automatic mode. Emotion has no place. Pillows were fetched, people holding her. For some strange reason, her small toe was bleeding, dark veinous blood, drops on the clean tiles. A bandage was put over there. "Should we call 911..", voices calm in a lull of an impending emotional storm. Amma responded, "Yennaku vali yellai" - "I have no pain". Expert hands of a pharmacist friend, felt her body at the spots of impact of the fall, massaged them, and a small relief obtained, when Amma indicated no pain.

Small talk on how to put the band aid, "She doesn't seem to have a fracture", watching her, and supporting her, but letting her lie there to enable the flow of the mental and physical energy that would be imminently required. Soon that appeared, and Amma insisted that she can get up on her own, discouraged the hands that supported her upwards. Her attempts failed, but the energy was there, and the supporting hands effortlessly pulled her up and she stood, free, on her own.  It took a few minutes for those around to get their emotions back, and the complexion restored to their faces. Back to the party, with Amma safely seated in her electric chair, singing along.

An escape. Half an hour later, the guests departed, with Amma walking to the door and waving them off. There was definitely no fracture. The lull in the emotional storm lifted, but now it was just a strong wind. Her daughter in a voice with a slight tremble, said a miracle had happened. We have all had the experience of an elderly mother falling, bones breaking, the darkness gathering, the end looming. The excruciating pain, endless visits to the hospital, 911 calls, all to the tragic conclusion.  Nothing like that happened today, and we are recovering from this most frightening incident.
