# Philosophy of health via Yoga: 

As humans (evolved animals) homeostasis (stable internal environment) is required for life. However the external environment can vary and various adaptations to keep the internal environment stable evolved. Essentially  we have control systems (sweat, shiver,nutrient flow ..) to keep the internal environment within parameters of surivival. It is in these internal control systems where the complexity and beauty of the engineering is amazing. The logic of these control systems requires extraordinary computational and communication capabilities and that is where the Mind comes in. This writeup skims all the complexit involved and goes to the main message with a few examples:

Specifically in food consumption. If something tastes good it is good for our body but eating a lot, makes it bad. The body’s control systems (GLP-1, ..) takes care of it by making us feel full etc.  In addition to this internal control system, there is/was an external system in years past, which worked as follows. Food was scarce, and it took effort to obtain. That difficulty of obtaining food was balanced with satisifaction that same food gave the body. That balance occurred at much lower consumption levels than today. Currently, for the most part very little effort is required in  obtaining food, and therefore the this external control system has become insignificant. The internal control system has to carry the entire load.

This implies that the Mind has to carry all that complexity and hence the stress. Another aspect of this is that over the eons, the mind has 'automated' this control mechanism and the communications. This automation means that these systems operate without us being consious of it. The medical terms are 'Sympathetic' (consious mind) and 'Parasympathetic' (automated mind). The stress due to control system overload is in the 'Parasympathetic' and we fall ill without knowing the precise reason. Not knowing the reason makes us incapable of taking proper action. This is where Yoga comes in! Read on until the last paragraph.

We all work consciously on Mathematics, Art, Creativity etc. A surprising observation is that the mind while making extraordinary achievements possible, may override/ignore essential survival functions, such as food, exercise etc. for short periods of time. The great mathematician Ramanujan demonstrated this many times in his lifetime, continuing to create/discover ground breaking contributions and solutions, in-spite of being in hunger and poverty. The Maslov ‘pyramid’ which posited that creativity and self activation is possible only after physical and emotional needs are met came tumbling down! Ironically, India is well-versed in this idea from ancient times, with Buddha teaching us that good life attainable by everyone and not just the Kings and Princes and the wealthy (as we believed at that time), Swami Vivekananda in the 1900’s, and a whole dynasty of Mathematicians, writers and Kings?( Ashoka).

The above paragraph is relevant and probably the most important contribution to Health, which is Yoga! The mind-body connection is the bedrock of health (among other things). Yoga attempts to bring the automated control systems information into the conscious sphere and allows for conscious action to assist the automated systems. This is the 'being aware' of all parts of your body. Yoga attempts to build a reverene toward the systems within our body and appreciation of the mind-body connections. The mind is capable of overiding its own logic and follow what the body is telling it to do! This then moderates the mind by incorporating the body reactions/feedback, enabling us to stop over-consumption thereby making the inherent control systems within the body function to keep us healthy and stress-free.