#gaslighting Gas Prices

Gas stinks.. we know that. Pollution causes headaches.. Why do we need Gas?
This is more of a philosophical essay, a mindful one as compared to the Mindless mantra that low prices directly make our lives better.  Material wealth does not make one happier. We have reached and exceeded our threshold and crossed over to where more makes out lives worse. We need to live in the present and look to the future. This threshold varies by individual and even within the same individual over time. But the median of that threshold has crossed over.  Like Sugar so sweet, we have crossed over the diabetes threshold and it is now making us miserable.

Living in the present, a large fossil-fuel industry fosters misery. It is agreed that living is less enthusiastic for all life in our oceans, more dangerous for land creatures with shrinking space  and polluted habitats. Living in the present is to use fossil fuels prudently, pay for cleaning up its environmental impact, and sustainably to ensure that we leave an environment no worse for the future people. This translates to a higher price for fossil fuels, and perhaps a tiered system of prices lower where its use is productive and higher where its use is frivolous.  Living in the present, the need is for innovation, electric and less environment stressing methods, of efficiency, lowered or zero material wastage. Living in the present is promoting jobs in innovative and environmentally friendly fields.  Living in the present, is to find disgusting the mindless work of doing the same thing over and over again, when that work is known to be destructive to the environment.

As famously said by Lincoln "The clothes of child do not fit an adult". Living in the present is to realize we are adults, wear adult clothes and add wisdom to our toolset. As adults, let us live in the present and look to the future of our future and younger generations.
