# The Japanese toilet..
Japan is a great High Tech society. But I got to go..  
Quickly opened the bathroom door.  
The lights came on.."Whirr.." - toilet seat uncovered itself!  
Immediately I sat on it. So great, so automatic, so pleasing, so quick!. But I had sat down with my pants on. No way to go. I stood up, and "Whitt.." - the toilet lid closed and in that scraped a piece of my pant and underwear into the bowl. As I stood there with my butt exposed, and in urgency.. there was flushing sound, as the toilet continued to do its work and that part of my pants/underwear were permanently gone. In my urgency, I tried to pull up the commode cover -- man that thing is strong..it would not open! What do I do?
Quickly I opened the door.. the seat cover stayed put. I had to step out of the bathroom (making sure nobody was around to avoid exposing myself), and then reenter the bathroom again by closing and opening the door again..HA! the toilet cover opened and plopped on it, and then 'plop..plop..plop' - ah what a relief! The toilet was pleased.. A great warmth enveloped my behind! Wait it was getting hot, it is burning my bottom! Quickly I pressed all the buttons nearby. A massive motor sound started. I remembered, the Japanese don't like body gas noises and have a motor sound to drown it out! Now Nobody can hear my screams from the hot toilet seat!

Only one way to go. Get up, the toilet closes, flushes itself, go out and close the door, look to see that nobody is around, open the door, and in again and voila! the toilet seats open! Plop down. It has nice bidet..press that button and relax.. What? Nothing's happening! You have to poop first, before the bidet will operate! But I am already done in the previous try! What to do? Hold my breath, push, push, push.. Nothing. Inhale twice, hold, and push, push.. a tiny plop! Wow! the bidet started working and a warm bottom bath! Now the hot air button, and the hot air gently dries it up!

Fantastic! Toilet task successfully accomplished. As I exited the bathroom and nonchantly walked away.. I heard a voice from a person who remarked.. "What happened.. Your pants are missing the behind!"