# Philosophy of health via Yoga: 

As humans (evolved animals) homeostasis (stable internal environment) is required for life. However the external environment can vary and various adaptations to keep the internal environment stable evolved. Essentially  we have control systems (sweat, shiver,nutrient flow ..) to keep the internal environment within parameters of surivival. It is in these internal control systems where the complexity and beauty of the engineering is amazing. The logic of these control systems requires extraordinary computational and communication capabilities and that is where the Mind comes in. This writeup skims all the complexities involved and focuses on the main message: The mind body connection.

Specifically in food consumption. If something tastes good it is good for our body but eating a lot, makes it bad. The body’s control systems (GLP-1, ..) takes care of it by making us feel full etc.  In addition to this internal control system, there is/was an external system in years past, which worked as follows. Food was scarce, and it took effort to obtain. That difficulty of obtaining food was balanced with satisifaction that same food gave the body. That balance occurred at much lower consumption levels than today. Currently, for the most part very little effort is required in  obtaining food, and therefore the this external control system has become insignificant. The internal control system has to carry the entire load.

The internal control system was created by the mind 'automating' all the control mechanisms and the communications into what is now called the parasympthetic nervous system. The medical terms are 'Sympathetic' (consious mind) and 'Parasympathetic' (automated mind). The stress due to control system overload is in the 'Parasympathetic' and we fall ill without knowing the precise reason. Not knowing the reason makes us incapable of taking proper action. This is where Yoga comes in! Read on until the last paragraph.

We all work consciously on Mathematics, Art, Creativity etc. A surprising observation is that the mind while making extraordinary achievements possible, may override/ignore essential survival functions, such as food, exercise etc. for short periods of time. The great mathematician Ramanujan demonstrated this many times in his lifetime, continuing to create/discover ground breaking contributions and solutions, in-spite of being in hunger and poverty. The Maslov ‘pyramid’ which posited that creativity and self activation is possible only after physical and emotional needs are met came tumbling down! Ironically, India is well-versed in this idea from ancient times, with Buddha teaching us that good life attainable by everyone and not just the Kings and Princes and the wealthy (as we believed at that time), Swami Vivekananda in the 1900’s, and a whole dynasty of Mathematicians, writers and Kings?( Ashoka).

The above paragraph is relevant and probably the most important contribution to Health, which is Yoga! The mind-body connection is the bedrock of health (among other things). Yoga attempts to bring the parasympthetic - automated control systems information into the conscious sphere and allows for conscious action to assist the automated systems. This is the 'being aware' of all parts of your body. Yoga attempts to build a reverence toward the systems within our body and appreciation of the mind-body connections. While the mind is capable of overiding its own logic in the parasymphthetic and not follow what the body is telling it to do as demonstrated by Ramanujan and others, it is ALSO capable of emphasizing and assisting the parasymphthetic systems to do their job! Yogic practices prod the mind by incorporating the body reactions/feedback, enabling us to consciously reason on what is to be done and help the inherent control systems function well to keep us healthy and stress-free.

The western medical approach is to ignore the mind-body connection, and focus primarily on 'debugging' the parasympathetic systems, the theory being when the bugs are removed, all will function fine. In a very large percentage of cases, this approach is too difficult, if not impossible. Examples are many chronic diseases, for which no completely successful cure exists.

Yoga, meanwhile emphasizes the mind-body connection, and uses a symbiotic approach with the concious mind being a big part of the cure. Yoga practices enhance the pathways by which the body communicates to 'sympathetic' or concious mind, which in turn will either find a solution on its own, by altering behaviours, or assist the parasympathetic control system to function properly to find a solution or eliminate the problem.

This writeup can go on and on in many directions:
a. by examining cases of how Yoga helps with particular chronic cases.
b. The connection between Yoga poses and specific systems within the Parasympathetic.
c. .. 