MyEye

Introduction:
I don't think about my eye if I don't have a need (who does?). But now I have and found out I had multiple eye problems including in the software behind the eye in the brain. So here goes:
Analysis methodology:
Elementary Yoga is the analysis methodology. Yoga is based on dual beliefs: 1. that there exists a logic, and most of us know some it, some more than most and no-one knows all.  and 2.Then there is the factual knowledge, and again most of us know some it (laymen), some more than most (PhD's on specific topics) and no-one knows all. The Yoga method is to combine both along with the concept of 'naya', that both are the same, your logic interchangeable could be rediscovered as factual knowledge, and vice versa and come to a conclusion that allows you to move on to the next problem. This is Elementary Yoga, which stops at solving some problem. Other parts of Yoga go beyond and are in the domain of the Great Guru's, which is not me.

My problems:
Lens: The lens in the eye: These are caused by irregular shape, and lack of flexibility which helps focus. The elementary yogic analysis: logic: the eye has to focus near and far and form a 'true' image; and factual knowledge: Some lens that is flexible will work. Then the problems become clear:
The lens is not able to get into a correct shape!
 - its shape is irregular resulting in multiple images on the retina, and this is 'astigmatism' and is indicated by the 'Cly' or clyinder number on the prescription. 
 - Its flexibility is limited and cannot assume shapes to ensure clarity of images too near and too far are not focused properly on the retina. These are the 'sphere' numbers on the prescription and generally the issue may be only on the 'near' side or 'far' side, so one number suffices in most cases. Dual numbers result in 'bi-focal' or progressive lens corrections
 - 
Eye problems can be 'mapped' to parts of the eye fairly easily, except for the software, which fortunately makes up for the problems, and unfortunately obfuscates the problems until they cannot be made up for. 

I have <a href="https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/aniseikonia">aniseikonia</a> - size difference of images between the eyes. If it is just a magnification issue, then magnify one eye. But generally this is not the issue. In my case it is retinal - I think, because there is a bump in the retina. The brain plays a huge part in aniseikonia by software magnification and merging of the images to produce a coherent image. So even if the issue is retinal, glasses to make this process easier can help. How to measure aniseikonia is an interesting challenge! One eye sees something smaller than the other. You can easily see it by viewing the same object with eye. But how much smaller?
A possible approach: Using the 'good eye' (or eye in which the object does not appear smaller) view an object with a tape measure alongside it. The view it with the other eye without the tape measure and guess what the tape measure would showed. Or another way is to view the object and then the tape measure seperately with the good eye and view only the object with the other eye. A different approach would be to use other senses with each eye - i.e. see the object with one eye and draw it with the other eye and vice versa, and compare the size differences in the drawing. AHA! Found an simpler way => See with each eye independently at the same time by putting a board between the two eyes, and identical objects to observe for each eye. Then you can estimate the relative sizes or even have a tape alongside the image for one eye and estimate the tape's measure for the same object in the other.
