# Impressions from a 'No Kings' Protest
There were about 3000 people there in Santa Ana Centennial park. The ethnic mix seemed reflective of the california Urban population - white, brown, asian, hispanic, South American. I could recognize some Indians as well. The proportion of women to men and self identified genders were also as would be expected for California.  Women perhaps outnumbered men. The atmosphere was raucus, peaceful and party like. The signs carried were by and large home-made, and the estimates are: 'Fuck Trump' - 20%, 'Crush ICE' - 30%, 'Welcome immigrants' - 5%, Democracy' - 20%, 'Where are the Epstein files' -10% and rest miscellaneous. The one I liked was 'If Kamala had won, I would be having brunch!'. The cars passing by 'honked' away non-stop at all hours of the protest.

Here is a link to the protest news in Santa Ana:
<a href="https://voiceofoc.org/2025/10/thousands-of-people-rail-against-ice-raids-other-federal-policies-in-orange-county/"> SantaAnaNoKings </a>

There were some people there, fearful and standing silently with their signs - possible highly introvert individuals, who had pushed beyond their fear of being in public, but not quite! The others were loud, passionate in their support of humanity, freedom, democracy, noise and honking. Everyone there believed that America was going (and gone) in the wrong direction. They desperately wanted to get back to brunch, get rid of Trump and eat well in the belief that America was back to it was - a kind and gentle with all institutions doing their respective jobs.

Plenty of Videos were taken. The concern that some of these could be government surviellence seemed to be absent. However a masked 'ice agent' kept circling the park, and exactly who is behind that masked costume was not known.

We had discussed goverment surviellence. It is illegal to surviel peaceful protests, but the likelihood that it happened, given the current nastiness is high. Surveillence tools are too easy with AI face recognition, personal information databases, fast computers all of which make this an easy task for the government or anybody. We will have to wait and see if we detect retributory actions against protestors - loss of job, persection for other 'crimes', enemies-list and so on. Ironically the best protection appears to be to protest a lot, ensure that your connections with the causes of the protest (sign-up with your name etc.) are easy for public viewing. The 'first-amendment defense' then becomes more credible, when facing persecution. The more public persona also associates you with a much larger group of like-minded protestors which the government has to consider before persecution.

Was this protest of any use? The answer is yes, due to the large number of people who turned out. The mid-term 2026 is on the way and the crowd size will not favor escalation of current practices. Also the crowd-size feeds on itself and the next big protest will be bigger. Another aspect is de-moralization of ICE and National Guard implementing stupid policies. They will wonder what they are doing - far from home and essentially beating up on fellow citizens or gathering garbage (like in DC) and nothing worthwhile ahead. Of course they got a 'Job' that pays which contributes to their coin-lode! The current administration is trying to make that coin more valuable, by increasing cost of health-insurance, and now by the 'smart' move of paying the military during the shotdown which probably includes ICE and National Guard. So it is de-moralization vs coin-collection for this group. The majority will be affected by de-moralization, the reason being they probably have family wealth and benefits to begin with.

Another reason to supporting the protest is the growing number of Trump Voters regretting their choice. Most of them express the opinion that the "Country is going in the wrong direction". This segment will be energized by the protests and most likely to cast the deciding vote in 2026. The Senate is 53-46 republican and the congress (house of representatives) is 220-214 republican.  Seats up for election in 2026: Senate-33, Congress- all 435. The size of these protests is proportional to the democratic momentum going into 2026.




